# Whole slide images reflect DNA methylation patterns of human tumors

Here, we present the pipeline of DNA methylation prediction in glioma and RCC samples based on morphometric features extracted from whole slide images.

A total of 342 patients from the glioma cohort and 326 patients from the RCC cohort, where both molecular and morphometric data are available, were included in the analysis. We applied machine learning models to predict the aforementioned DM-values using the morphometric features extracted from histopathology images. For each gene or gene cluster, a model is trained to predict the DM-value representing the methylation state using the morphometric features. This process can be viewed as a multitask and multivariate classification problem where each task represents a gene or a gene cluster and each variable represents a morphometric feature. We generated 30 sets of training/testing data sets. For each set, we divided the data set into a training set (75\%) and a testing set (25\%). Several binary classifiers were then fitted on the training set and the best parameters are selected using a 5-fold cross-validation procedure.

Due to the high dimensionality of the feature space and the relatively low number of samples, the models were regularized to avoid overfitting. The regularization parameters were also optimized through the 5-fold cross-validation procedure. We applied the following models using Python's Scikit-learn package: Logistic Regression with lasso regularization, Random Forest where the number of trees is optimized, Support Vector Machines where the kernel type ('linear' or 'rbf') and the regularization constant are optimized, Adaboost, where the learning rate and the number of estimators are optimized, Naive Bayes, and a two-layer Fully-Connected Neural Network with the learning rate as hyper-parameters.
